Before getting too much further in this course I want to say a few quick words about mathematical proofs
vs. intuitions now proofs formal rigorous proofs don't really play a large role in kind of earlier stages
of mathematics but once you get to higher studies in mathematics like in calculus and linear algebra
differential equations multi variable calculus and so on proofs become more and more important.
On the other hand I focus in this course a lot more on intuition and using python as a tool to build
intuition relative to proofs.
And so I just want to say a few words about this.
So what is a proof.
Even so a mathematical proof is a rigorous demonstration that an hypothesis or some claim about how
something works in mathematics or a mathematical operation is true and that rigorous demonstration is
built on axioms it's built on previously proven claims.
Now the thing is that proving something in mathematics requires intellect it requires some creativity
and some problem solving.
These are things that humans are really good at and computers are not necessarily so good at.
So when it comes to formal rigorous demonstrations of mathematical proofs I think computers or Python
or any other program are kind of of limited benefit.
And you really need to be using your brain.
In contrast what Python or other numerical processing softwares can really help you with is building
intuition in particular intuition with graphics with visualization with running through lots and lots
and lots of examples.
And the idea here which I also mentioned at the very beginning of this course is that we trust that
computers are implementing the mathematical details all the arithmetic and things accurately and so
therefore we let the computers deal with the details.
And that frees up you your your mind to think about intuition think about important concepts.
Now when you're going through specific examples it's a good idea to test several examples to avoid overgeneralizing
from special cases.
So that is to say whenever you see a claim you come across a claim in mathematics and you want to implement
it in Python in order to understand it better then it's a good idea to test different examples with
different parameters or different variable values different kinds of functions and so on.
And the reason why I'm bringing all this up is because going through mathematical proofs is really important.
In mathematics it becomes more important as you get into areas like calculus and linear algebra.
However in this course for the rest of this course I'm not really focusing on mathematical proofs.
Instead I'm going to just make claims that are proven in theory but I am focusing more on how you can
use python as a tool to build intuition about what those proofs actually mean as opposed to walking
through the detailed steps of building up those proofs from scratch from first principles.
Okay.
So with that said it is now time to begin our exploration of using Python to understand concepts in
calculus.